Again we hail the opening morn,


Again breaks forth the day new-born,


Which, rising in victorious might,


Chases away black-wandering night!


Again, my mind, in early songs


Praise Him to whom all praise belongs;


Who gave to morning dawn the light


Who gave the glittering stars to night,


Which to their Maker and their King


Around the world in chorus sing.


For o'er prolific matter, high,


Moves ether pure in fiery sky;


Where glides the moon in glorious trim,


Cutting the last encircling rim:



For to the eighth revolving stream


The star-borne courses brightly gleam.


But now beyond the starry poles


A counter sea of glory rolls,


Unbosomed; and with dance divine


Doth the Eternal Mind enshrine,


Which covered hath with hoary wings


The palace of the King of kings.


What is beyond none may relate,


Nor mind of man can penetrate:


Eternal severance restrains,


And happy silence ever reigns.


From Root, or Spring, or Fountain one


A threefold lighted Form hath shone:


For where the Father dwells above,


There dwelleth too His own heart's love,


His glorious Son, wisdom perf&#232;ct,


And of all worlds the Architect:


And in the Unity combined


The Spirit's holy Light hath shined.


One Root of Good, one Fount of Love,


Whence sprung the bliss supreme above:


And the bright holy lamps divine


In equal glory ever shine.


And thence in this fair world of ours,


With high-born intellectual powers,


A chorus now of deathless kings


The Triune glory ever sings.


And near the Fount of Love and Truth


Angelic band in changeless youth,


Guided by holy Wisdom's mind,


Immortal wreath of beauty find.


But some with dark averted eyes


Fall mindless from the lofty skies


Downward the gloomy depths among,


And bring the higher world along;


Down, down to Matter's utmost bound,


Where, settling in the depth profound,


Nature assigns them birth and place,


A God-like, though God-fallen race.



Hence giant heroes took their birth,


The mighty conquerors of earth;


And hence Breath sown o'er all the ground


Each varying type of life hath found.


But all things to Thy counsel hold,


Things past, or present, new or old:


Whate'er we have, whate'er we share,


Of all from Thee the sources are.


The Father and the Mother Thou,


Male, female, unto Thee we bow:


Or voice be heard, or all be still,


'Tis just as ordered by Thy will.


'And Thou or Nature Thyself art,


Or Nature is Thy counterpart:


And Thou art King; and ages all


Within Thine age unmeasured fall.


May I my song aright renew,


O Thou! the Root whence all things grew!


Hail! Thou, the world's Original;


Hail! Thou, the Spring, First Cause of all.


All numbers blending into one,


The Uncreated, God alone!


All hail, all hail, Thou One Divine!


All joy, all happiness be Thine!


Bend Thou, O bend propitious ear,


And this my hymn of praises bear,


Speed on true Wisdom's opening day,


Pour blessings down in rich array:


Yea, grace-distilling streams pour down,


That I may win contentment's crown


In life's sweet calm; the happy mean


Give me, riches and want between.


Off from my limbs diseases ward,


My soul from stormy passions guard:


Let no dark thoughts my steps attend:


My life from biting cares defend;


Lest, mind, borne down by earthly ill,


To soar should find nor time nor will.


But grant me with free wing to rise,


And join the chorus of the skies,


And there with Thine for ever sing


The glories of my God and King!



