O! 'Tis no theme of common things


That wakes my ivory-fastened strings!


To Thee, in solemn Dorian strain,


I lift my heart and voice amain,


O bless'd, O Immortal One,


The holy Virgin's glorious Son!


But, O great King, save Thou my life


From cares and woes and worldly strife,


That from calamity all free


Both night and day I may praise Thee.


And to my mind mayst Thou convey


From mind's own fount, a clear bright ray.



Unto my youth mayst Thou impart


Soundness of limbs and manly heart:


And may my deeds reflect Thy light


In honour, truth, and glory bright.


And on the ripeness of mine age


Mayst Thou the wisdom of the sage


Bestow, with health, the blessed mead


Of harvest rich from well-sown seed.


And on that darling son of mine


May Thy preserving mercy shine,


Whom, when just passing gate of death,


Thou didst restore to vital breath.


O Lord of life, 'twas Thou didst wrench


From Death's firm grasp, his prey, and quench


My burning grief in floods of joy;


For Thou didst give me back my boy;


And tears, O Father, Thou didst dry,


In answer to Thy suppliant's cry!


May son and daughter, much loved pair,


Thy kind protection ever share,


And all my house, in happy calm,


Be sheltered by Thine hand from harm!


And, O my Saviour King, bless Thou


The partner of my wedded vow;



From sickness and from sorrow free,


Faithful, one-minded, may she be,


Preserved by Thee from thought of sin,


All bright without, all pure within!


Untouched by roving passions' tide,


My honoured wife, my love, my pride!


Loose Thou my soul from baneful chains


Of worldly life, its cares and pains,


And floods of dismal grief and woe,


Which overwhelm this earth below.


O! thus prepared may I be found


With holy worshippers around


To lead the choir, and chants to raise


To Thy all-glorious Father's praise;


And to Thy majesty, great King,


Loud hymns again I hope to sing;


Again in voice of praise Thy name


To bless, Thy honours to proclaim;


May be, my harp I shall again


Tune all-unhurt to highest strain.



